# About organizational listings¶

Organizational listings in Snowflake allow you to share data products securely
within your organization, making it easier for internal consumers to discover
and use trusted resources in the Internal Marketplace. Providers can create
and manage listings with the Snowflake API or Provider Studio in Snowsight.

## The Internal Marketplace¶

The Internal Marketplace in Snowflake is a curated, secure space for
collaborative data sharing within your organization. It centralizes
internally-available data products, allowing teams to discover, trust, and
apply resources without needing to navigate external marketplaces. By offering
an organized way to discover data products in the Internal Marketplace
supports collaboration and data-driven decision-making across your company.

The Internal Marketplace is similar to the public Snowflake Marketplace, but
it is exclusively for your organization. It allows you to easily discover and
use vetted data shared within your internal teams. Access can be managed by
account targeting and Role-Based Access Control (RBAC), ensuring that data
remains secure and accessible only to authorized users.

## Organizational listing providers¶

For those creating and sharing data products, the Internal Marketplace
provides a secure platform to publish data products internally. Providers can
create and manage organizational listings using Provider Studio in Snowsight
or via the API. Publishing data products in the Internal Marketplace ensures
teams access consistent datasets, reducing redundancy and supporting unified,
data-driven initiatives.

Centralizing data offerings in the Internal Marketplace helps you manage
access to sensitive information, maintaining data security and integrity while
enabling the organization to innovate with trusted data.

Providers can create and manage organizational listings by using Provider
Studio or the API.

## Organizational listing consumers¶

For team members and data consumers, organizational listings provide a way to
discover and access internal-only data resources. The Internal Marketplace
lets users locate data products without having to browse through externally-
shared listings from the broader Snowflake Marketplace (Snowflake
Marketplace). Each organizational listings can be curated to meet your
organizational standards, so consumers can use these data products confidently
for their analytics and projects.

