# Getting Started

Begin your adventure: a comprehensive guide to getting started with Snowflake
and making the most of its features and benefits.

## Introduction to Snowflake

Basic information and instructions for first-time users of Snowflake.

[Before you beginMake sure that you meet the prerequisites for using our
applications that connect to Snowflake.](/en/user-guide/setup)

[Logging into SnowflakeLearn how to use Snowsight or SnowSQL to log into
Snowflake.](/en/user-guide/connecting)

[Snowsight Quick TourLearn about the features in Snowsight that you can use to
manage database objects and query data.](/en/user-guide/ui-snowsight-quick-
tour)

## Learn the Key Concepts

These topics introduce the Snowflake architecture and basic features

[ArchitectureLearn about Snowflake’s architecture, how data is stored, and how
queries are processed.](/en/user-guide/intro-key-concepts)

[Cloud PlatformsLearn about the cloud platforms that are supported for use
with Snowflake.](/en/user-guide/intro-cloud-platforms)

[Cloud RegionsLearn about the cloud provider regions in which Snowflake
accounts are hosted.](/en/user-guide/intro-regions)

[EditionsLearn about the different editions provided by Snowflake and the
features and levels of service offered with each edition.](/en/user-
guide/intro-editions)

[ReleasesLearn about our process for deploying new releases.](/en/user-
guide/intro-releases)

[FeaturesLearn about some of the key features of Snowflake.](/en/user-
guide/intro-supported-features)

## Manage Your Data

[Data LifecycleLearn about how data is organized, stored, queried, and
managed.](/en/user-guide/data-lifecycle)

[Continuous Data ProtectionLearn about how your data is protected and how you
can access and recover your data.](/en/user-guide/data-cdp)

[Regulatory ComplianceLearn about our commitment to meeting industry-standard
regulatory compliance requirements.](/en/user-guide/intro-compliance)

## Start Learning

[TUTORIALSnowflake in 20 MinutesLearn how to create Snowflake objects, load
data, and query data.](/en/user-guide/tutorials/snowflake-in-20minutes)

[TUTORIALCreate Users and Grant RolesLearn how to create a user and grant
roles to it using SQL.](/en/user-guide/tutorials/users-and-roles-tutorial)

[TUTORIALLoad and Query Sample Data Using SQLLearn how to load and query Tasty
Bytes sample data using SQL.](/en/user-guide/tutorials/tasty-bytes-sql-load)

[TUTORIALLoad and Query Sample Data Using Snowpark PythonLearn how to load and
query Tasty Bytes sample data using Python.](/en/user-guide/tutorials/tasty-
bytes-python-load)

[TUTORIALLoad Data from Cloud Storage (Amazon S3)Learn how to load a table
from an S3 bucket.](/en/user-guide/tutorials/load-from-cloud-tutorial)

[TUTORIALLoad Data from Cloud Storage (Microsoft Azure)Learn how to load a
table from an Azure container.](/en/user-guide/tutorials/load-from-cloud-
tutorial-azure)

[TUTORIALLoad Data from Cloud Storage (Google)Learn how to load a table from a
GCS bucket.](/en/user-guide/tutorials/load-from-cloud-tutorial-gcs)

[TUTORIALBulk Loading from a Local File System Using COPYLearn how to load
data from files in your local file system into a table.](/en/user-guide/data-
load-internal-tutorial)

[TUTORIALBulk Loading from Amazon S3 Using COPYLearn how to load data from
files in an existing Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) bucket into a
table.](/en/user-guide/tutorials/data-load-external-tutorial)

[TUTORIALJSON BasicsLearn how to load JSON data from files, query the data,
and flatten and store the data in a table.](/en/user-guide/tutorials/json-
basics-tutorial)

[TUTORIALLoading JSON Data into a Relational TableLearn more about how to
store JSON objects, extract JSON elements, and transform those elements into
table columns.](/en/user-guide/tutorials/script-data-load-transform-json)

[TUTORIALLoading and Unloading Parquet DataLearn how to upload Parquet data by
transforming elements of a staged Parquet file directly into table
columns.](/en/user-guide/script-data-load-transform-parquet)

## Sample Data Sets

Snowflake provides sample data sets, such as the industry-standard TPC-DS and
TPC-H benchmarks, for evaluating and testing a broad range of Snowflake’s SQL
support.

[See all](/en/user-guide/sample-data)

[SNOWFLAKE_SAMPLE_DATAThe sample database, SNOWFLAKE_SAMPLE_DATA, is identical
to the databases that you create in your account, except that it is read-
only.](/en/user-guide/sample-data-using)

[TPC-DSTPC-DS models the decision support functions of a retail product
supplier. The supporting schema contains vital business information, such as
customer, order, and product data.](/en/user-guide/sample-data-tpcds)

[TPC-HTPC-H is a decision support benchmark. It consists of a suite of
business-oriented ad hoc queries and concurrent data modifications.](/en/user-
guide/sample-data-tpch)

