# Replication considerations¶

[![Snowflake logo in black \(no text\)](../_images/logo-snowflake-
black.png)](../_images/logo-snowflake-black.png) [Standard & Business Critical
Feature](intro-editions)

  * Database and share replication are available to all accounts.

  * Replication of other account objects & failover/failback require Business Critical Edition (or higher). To inquire about upgrading, please contact [Snowflake Support](https://docs.snowflake.com/user-guide/contacting-support).

This topic describes the behavior of certain Snowflake features in secondary
databases and objects when replicated with [replication or failover
groups](account-replication-intro.html#label-replication-and-failover-groups)
or [database replication](db-replication-config), and provides general
guidance for working with replicated objects and data.

If you have previously enabled database replication for individual databases
using the ALTER DATABASE … ENABLE REPLICATION TO ACCOUNTS command, see
[Database replication considerations](database-replication-considerations) for
additional considerations specific to database replication.

## Replication group and failover group constraints¶

The following sections explain the constraints around adding account objects,
databases, and shares to replication and failover groups.

### Database and share objects¶

The following constraints apply to database and share objects:

  * An object can only be in one failover group.

  * An object can be in multiple replication groups as long as each group is replicated to a _different_ target account.

  * An object cannot be in both a failover group and a replication group.

  * Secondary (replica) objects cannot be added to a primary replication or failover group.

You can only replicate outbound shares. Replication of [inbound shares](data-
share-consumers) (shares from providers) is not supported.

### Account objects¶

An account can only have one replication or failover group that contains
objects other than databases or shares.

## Replication privileges¶

This section describes the replication privileges that are available to be
granted to roles to specify the operations users can perform on replication
and failover group objects in the system. For the syntax of the GRANT command,
see [GRANT <privileges>](../sql-reference/sql/grant-privilege).

Note

For [database replication](db-replication-config), only a user with the
ACCOUNTADMIN role can enable and manage database replication and failover. For
additional information on required privileges for database replication, see
the [required privileges table](db-replication-config.html#label-db-
replication-required-privileges) in [Step 6. Refreshing a secondary database
on a schedule](db-replication-config.html#label-refreshing-secondary-db-on-
schedule).

Privilege | Object | Usage | Notes  
---|---|---|---  
OWNERSHIP | Replication Group Failover Group | Grants the ability to delete, alter, and grant or revoke access to an object. | Can be granted by:

> The ACCOUNTADMIN role or A role that has the MANAGE GRANTS privilege or A
> role that has the OWNERSHIP privilege on the group.  
  
CREATE REPLICATION GROUP | Account | Grants the ability to create a replication group. | Must be granted by the ACCOUNTADMIN role.  
CREATE FAILOVER GROUP | Account | Grants the ability to create a failover group. | Must be granted by the ACCOUNTADMIN role.  
FAILOVER | Failover Group | Grants the ability to promote a secondary failover group to serve as primary failover group. | Can be granted or revoked by a role with the OWNERSHIP privilege on the group.  
REPLICATE | Replication Group Failover Group | Grants the ability to refresh a secondary group. | Can be granted or revoked by a role with the OWNERSHIP privilege on the group.  
MODIFY | Replication Group Failover Group | Grants the ability to change the settings or properties of an object. | Can be granted or revoked by a role with the OWNERSHIP privilege on the group.  
MONITOR | Replication Group Failover Group | Grants the ability to view details within an object. | Can be granted or revoked by a role with the OWNERSHIP privilege on the group.  
  
For instructions on creating a custom role with a specified set of privileges,
see [Creating custom roles](security-access-control-configure.html#label-
security-custom-role).

For general information about roles and privilege grants for performing SQL
actions on [securable objects](security-access-control-overview.html#label-
access-control-securable-objects), see [Overview of Access Control](security-
access-control-overview).

## Replication and references across replication groups¶

Objects in a replication (or failover) group that have dangling references
(i.e. references to objects in another replication or failover group) might
successfully replicate to a target account in some circumstances. If the
replication operation results in behavior in the target account consistent
with behavior that can occur in the source account, replication succeeds.

For example, if a column in a table in failover group `fg_a` references a
sequence in failover group `fg_b`, replication of both groups succeeds. If
`fg_a` is replicated before `fg_b`, insert operations (after failover) on the
table that references the sequence fails if `fg_b` was not replicated. This
behavior can occur in a source account. If a sequence is dropped in a source
account, insert operations on a table with a column referencing the dropped
sequence fails.

When the dangling reference is a security policy that protects data, the
replication (or failover) group with the security policy must be replicated
before any replication group that contains objects that reference the policy
is replicated.

Attention

Making updates to security policies that protect data in separate replication
or failover groups may result in inconsistencies and should be done with care.

For database objects, you can view [object dependencies](object-dependencies)
in the Account Usage [OBJECT_DEPENDENCIES view](../sql-reference/account-
usage/object_dependencies).

### Session policies and secondary roles¶

For details, see Session policies with secondary roles

### Dangling references and network policies¶

Dangling references in network policies can cause replication to fail with the
following error message:

    
    
    Dangling references in the snapshot. Correct the errors before refreshing again.
    The following references are missing (referred entity <- [referring entities])
    

To avoid dangling references, specify the following object types in the
`OBJECT_TYPES` list when executing the CREATE or ALTER command for the
replication or failover group:

  * If a network policy uses a network rule, include the database that contains the schema where the network rule was created.

  * If a network policy is associated with the account, include `NETWORK POLICIES` and `ACCOUNT PARAMETERS` in the `OBJECT_TYPES` list.

  * If a network policy is associated with a user, include `NETWORK POLICIES` and `USERS` in the `OBJECT_TYPES` list.

For more details, see [Replicating network policies](account-replication-
security-integrations.html#label-account-replication-network-policy).

### Dangling references and packages policies¶

If there is a [packages policy](../developer-guide/udf/python/packages-policy)
set on the account, the following dangling references error occurs during the
refresh operation for a replication or failover group that contains account
objects:

    
    
    003131 (55000): Dangling references in the snapshot. Correct the errors before refreshing again.
    The following references are missing (referred entity <- [referring entities]):
    POLICY '<policy_db>.<policy_schema>.<packages_policy_name>' <- [ACCOUNT '<account_locator>']
    

To avoid dangling references, replicate the database that contains the
packages policy to the target account. The database containing the policy can
be in the same or different replication or failover group.

### Dangling references and secrets¶

For details, see Replication and secrets.

### Dangling references and streams¶

Dangling references for streams cause replication to fail with the following
error message:

    
    
    Primary database: the source object ''<object_name>'' for this stream ''<stream_name>'' is not included in the replication group.
    Stream replication does not support replication across databases in different replication groups. Please see Streams Documentation
    https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/account-replication-considerations#replication-and-streams for options.
    

To avoid dangling reference errors:

  * The primary database must include both the stream and its base object or

  * The database that contains the stream and the database that contains the base object referenced by the stream must be included in the same replication or failover group.

## Replication and read-only secondary objects¶

All secondary objects in a target account, including secondary databases and
shares, are read-only. Changes to replicated objects or object types cannot be
made locally in a target account. For example, if the `USERS` object type is
replicated from a source account to a target account, new users cannot be
created or modified in the target account.

New, local databases and shares _can_ be created and modified in a target
account. If `ROLES` are also replicated to the target account, new roles
cannot be created or modified in that target account. Therefore, privileges
cannot be granted to (or revoked from) a role on a secondary object in the
target account. However, privileges _can_ be granted to (or revoked from) a
secondary role on local objects (for example, databases, shares, or
replication or failover groups) created in the target account.

## Replication and objects in target accounts¶

If you created account objects, for example, users and roles, in your target
account by _any means other than via replication_ (for example, using
scripts), these users and roles have no global identifier by default. When a
target account is refreshed from the source account, the refresh operation
**drops** any account objects of the types in the `OBJECT_TYPES` list in the
target account that have no global identifier.

Note

The initial refresh operation to replicate USERS or ROLES might result in an
error. This is to help prevent accidental deletion of data and metadata
associated with users and roles. For more information about the circumstances
that determine whether these object types are dropped or the refresh operation
fails, see [Initial replication of users and roles](account-replication-
config.html#label-initial-replication-users-roles).

To avoid dropping these objects, see [Apply global IDs to objects created by
scripts in target accounts](account-replication-config.html#label-apply-
global-ids-to-objects).

### Objects recreated in target accounts¶

If an existing object in the source account is replaced using a CREATE OR
REPLACE statement, the existing object is dropped, and then a new object with
the same name is created in a single transaction. For example, if you execute
a CREATE OR REPLACE statement for an existing table `t1`, table `t1` is
dropped, and then a new table `t1` is created. For more information, see the
[usage notes for CREATE TABLE](../sql-reference/sql/create-table.html#label-
create-or-replace-table-notes).

When objects are replaced on the target account, the DROP and CREATE
statements do not execute atomically during a refresh operation. This means
the object might disappear briefly from the target account while it is being
recreated as a new object.

## Replication and security policies¶

The database containing a security policy and the references (i.e.
assignments) can be replicated using replication and failover groups. Security
policies include:

  * [Aggregation policies](aggregation-policies)

  * [Authentication policies](authentication-policies)

  * [Masking policies](security-column-intro)

  * [Password policies](admin-user-management.html#label-password-policies)

  * [Privacy policies](diff-privacy/differential-privacy-admin-privacy-policies)

  * [Projection policies](projection-policies)

  * [Row access policies](security-row-intro)

  * [Session policies](session-policies), including session policies with secondary roles

  * [Tag-based masking policies](tag-based-masking-policies)

If you are using [database replication](db-replication-intro), see [Database
replication and security objects](database-replication-
considerations.html#label-db-replication-considerations-security-policies).

### Authentication, password, & session policies¶

Authentication, password, and session policy references for users are
replicated when specifying the database containing policy (`ALLOWED_DATABASES
= _policy_db_`) and `USERS` in a replication group or failover group.

If either the policy database or users have already been replicated to a
target account, update the replication or failover group in the source account
to include the databases and object types required to successfully replicate
the policy. Then execute a refresh operation to update the target account.

If user-level policies are not in use, `USERS` do not need to be included in
the replication or failover group.

Note

The policy must be in the same account as the account-level policy assignment
and the user-level policy assignment.

If you have a security policy set on the account or a user in the account and
you do not update the replication or failover group to include the
`_policy_db_` containing the policy and `USERS`, a dangling reference occurs
in the target account. In this case, a dangling reference means that Snowflake
cannot locate the policy in the target account because the fully-qualified
name of the policy points to the database in the source account. Consequently,
the target account or users in the target account are not required to comply
with the security policy.

To successfully replicate a security policy, verify the replication or
failover group includes the object types and databases required to prevent a
dangling reference.

### Privacy policies¶

Consider the following when replicating privacy policies and privacy-protected
tables and views associated with [differential privacy](diff-
privacy/differential-privacy-overview):

  * If a privacy policy is assigned to a table or view in the source account, the policy needs to be replicated in the target account.

  * Cumulative privacy loss for a privacy budget is not replicated.

  * Cumulative privacy loss in the target and source accounts are tracked separately.

  * Administrators in the target account cannot adjust the replicated privacy budget. The privacy budget is synced with the one in the source account.

  * If an analyst has access to the privacy-protected table or view in both the source account and the target account, they can incur twice the amount of privacy loss before reaching the privacy budget’s limit.

  * Privacy domains set on the columns are also replicated.

### Session policies with secondary roles¶

If you are using session policies with secondary roles, you must specify the
policy database in the same replication group that contains the roles. For
example:

    
    
    CREATE REPLICATION GROUP myrg
      OBJECT_TYPES = DATABASES, ROLES, USERS
      ALLOWED_DATABASES = session_policy_db
      ALLOWED_ACCOUNTS = myorg.myaccount
      REPLICATION_SCHEDULE = '10 MINUTE';
    

Copy

If you specify the session policy database that references secondary roles in
a different replication or failover group (`rg2`) than the replication or
failover group that contains account-level objects (`myrg`) and you replicate
or fail over `rg2` first, a dangling reference occurs. An error message tells
you to place the session policy database in the replication or failover group
that contains the roles. This behavior occurs when the session policy is set
on the account or users.

If the session policy and account level objects are in different replication
groups, and the session policy is not set on the account or users, you can
replicate and refresh the target account. Be sure to refresh for the
replication group that contains the account level objects first.

If you refresh the target account after replicating or failing over the
session policy with secondary roles and role objects, the target account
reflects the session policy and secondary roles behavior in the source
account.

Additionally, when you refresh the database in the target account and the
database contains a session policy that references secondary roles,
`ALLOWED_SECONDARY_ROLES` always evaluates to `[ALL]`.

## Replication and secrets¶

You can only replicate the secret using a replication or failover group.
Specify the database that contains the secret, the database that contains UDFs
or procedures that reference the secret, and the integrations that reference
the secret in a single replication or failover group.

If you have the database that contains the secret in one replication or
failover group and the integration that references the secret in a different
replication or failover group, then:

  * If you replicate the integration first and then the secret, the operation is successful: all objects are replicated and there are no dangling references.

  * If you replicate the secret before the integration and the secret does not already exist in the target account, a “placeholder secret” is added in the target account to prevent a dangling reference. Snowflake maps the placeholder secret to the integration.

After you replicate the group that contains the integration, on the next
refresh operation for the group that contains the secret, Snowflake updates
the target account to replace the placeholder secret with the secret that is
referenced in the integration.

  * If you replicate the secret and do not replicate the integration from `account1` to `account2`, the integration doesn’t work in the target account (`account2`) because there is no integration to use the secret. Additionally, if you failover and the target account is promoted to source account, the integration will not work.

When you decide to failover to make `account1` as the source account, the
secret and integration references match and the placeholder secret is not
used. This allows you to use the security integration and the secret that
contains the credentials because the objects can reference each other.

## Replication and cloning¶

Historically [Cloned objects](object-clone) were replicated physically rather
than logically to secondary databases. That is, cloned tables in a standard
database don’t contribute to the overall data storage unless or until DML
operations on the clone add to or modify existing data. However, when a cloned
table is replicated to a secondary database, the physical data is also
replicated, increasing the data storage usage for your account.

A logically replicated cloned table shares the micro-partitions of the
original table it was cloned from, reducing the physical storage of the
secondary table in the target account.

If the original table and cloned table are included in the same replication or
failover group, the cloned table can be replicated logically to the target
account.

### Logical replication of clones¶

If the original and cloned table are included in the same replication or
failover group, the cloned table can be replicated logically to the target
account.

For example, if table `t2` in database `db2` is a clone of table `t1` in
database `db1`, and both databases are included in replication group `rg1`,
then table `t2` is created as a logical clone in the target account.

A cloned object can be cloned to create additional clones of the original
object. The original object and the cloned objects are part of the same [clone
group](tables-storage-considerations.html#label-owned-storage-vs-referenced-
storage). For example, if table `t3` in database `db3` is created as a clone
of `t2`, it is in the same clone group as the original table `t1` and the
cloned table `t2`.

If database `db3` is later added to the replication group `rg1`, table `t3` is
created in the target account as a logical clone of table `t1`.

#### Considerations¶

  * Tables that are in the same clone group in the source account might not be in the same clone group in the target account.

  * The original table and its cloned table must be in the same replication or failover group.

  * In some cases, not all micro-partitions of the clone group can be shared with the cloned table. This can result in additional storage usage for the cloned table in the target account.

#### Example¶

Table `t2` in database `db2` is a clone of table `t1` in database `db1`.
Include both databases in replication group `myrg` to logically replicate `t2`
to the target account:

    
    
    CREATE REPLICATION GROUP myrg
        OBJECT_TYPES = DATABASES
        ALLOWED_DATABASES = db1, db2
        ALLOWED_ACCOUNTS = myorg.myaccount2
        REPLICATION_SCHEDULE = '10 MINUTE';
    

Copy

## Replication and automatic clustering¶

In a primary database, Snowflake monitors clustered tables using [Automatic
Clustering](tables-auto-reclustering) and reclusters them as needed. As part
of a refresh operation, clustered tables are replicated to a secondary
database with the current sorting of the table micro-partitions. As such,
reclustering is not performed again on the clustered tables in the secondary
database, which would be redundant.

If a secondary database contains clustered tables and the database is promoted
to become the primary database, Snowflake begins Automatic Clustering of the
tables in this database while simultaneously suspending the monitoring of
clustered tables in the previous primary database.

See Replication and Materialized Views (in this topic) for information about
Automatic Clustering for materialized views.

## Replication and large, high-churn tables¶

When one or more rows of a table are updated or deleted, all of the impacted
micro-partitions that store this data in a primary database are re-created and
must be synchronized to secondary databases. For large, high-churn dimension
tables, the replication costs can be significant.

For large, high-churn dimension tables that incur significant replication
costs, the following mitigations are available:

  * Replicate any primary databases that store such tables at a lower frequency.

  * Change your data model to reduce churn.

For more information, see [Managing costs for large, high-churn
tables](tables-storage-considerations.html#label-large-high-churn-table-
costs).

## Replication and Time Travel¶

[Time Travel](data-time-travel) and [Fail-safe](data-failsafe) data is
maintained independently for a secondary database and is not replicated from a
primary database. Querying tables and views in a secondary database using Time
Travel can produce different results than when executing the same query in the
primary database.

Historical Data:

    

Historical data available to query in a primary database using Time Travel is
not replicated to secondary databases.

For example, suppose data is loaded continuously into a table every 10 minutes
using Snowpipe, and a secondary database is refreshed every hour. The refresh
operation only replicates the latest version of the table. While every hourly
version of the table within the retention window is available for query using
Time Travel, none of the iterative versions within each hour (the individual
Snowpipe loads) are available.

Data Retention Period:

    

The data retention period for tables in a secondary database begins when the
secondary database is refreshed with the DML operations (i.e. changing or
deleting data) written to tables in the primary database.

Note

The data retention period parameter, [DATA_RETENTION_TIME_IN_DAYS](../sql-
reference/parameters.html#label-data-retention-time-in-days), is only
replicated to database objects in the secondary database, not to the database
itself. For more details about parameter replication, see [Parameters](db-
replication-intro.html#label-database-replication-parameters).

## Replication and materialized views¶

In a primary database, Snowflake performs automatic background maintenance of
materialized views. When a base table changes, all materialized views defined
on the table are updated by a background service that uses compute resources
provided by Snowflake. In addition, if Automatic Clustering is enabled for a
materialized view, then the view is monitored and reclustered as necessary in
a primary database.

A refresh operation replicates the materialized view definitions to a
secondary database; the materialized view data is not replicated. Automatic
background maintenance of materialized views in a secondary database is
enabled by default. If Automatic Clustering is enabled for a materialized view
in a primary database, automatic monitoring and reclustering of the
materialized view in the secondary database is also enabled.

Note

The charges for automated background synchronization of materialized views are
billed to each account that contains a secondary database.

## Replication and dynamic tables¶

Dynamic table replication behavior varies based on whether the primary
database containing the dynamic table is part of a replication group or a
failover group.

### Dynamic tables and replication groups¶

A database that contains a dynamic table can be replicated using a replication
group. The source object(s) it depends on are not required to be in the same
replication group.

Replicated objects in each target account are referred to as _secondary_
objects and are replicas of the _primary_ objects in the source account.
Secondary objects are read-only in the target account. If a secondary
replication group is dropped in a target account, the databases that were
included in the group become read/write. However, any dynamic tables included
in a replication group remain read-only even after the secondary group is
dropped in the target account. No DML or dynamic table refreshes can happen on
these read-only dynamic tables.

### Dynamic tables and failover groups¶

A database that contains a dynamic table can be replicated using a failover
group. If a dynamic table references source objects outside the failover group
or database replication, it can still be replicated. After a failover, the
dynamic table resolves source objects using name resolution during refresh.
The refresh might succeed or fail, depending on the state of the source
objects. If successful, the dynamic table is reinitialized with the latest
data from the source objects.

Secondary dynamic tables are read-only and do not get refreshed. After a
failover occurs and a secondary dynamic table is promoted to primary dynamic
table, the first refresh is a reinitialization followed by incremental
refreshes if the dynamic table is configured for incremental refresh of data.

Note

The reinitialized dynamic table might differ from the original replica because
the source objects and dynamic table are not guaranteed to share the same
snapshot.

**Example: Refresh failure due to missing source objects**

![Simple diagram of refresh failure due to missing source
objects.](../_images/dynamic-tables-failover-group-example-1.png)

If a dynamic table depends on a source table outside the failover group, it
cannot refresh after a failover. In the above diagram, the dynamic table `dt`
in the primary account is replicated to the secondary account. `dt` depends on
`source_table`, which is not included in the same failover group as the
primary account. After failover, the refresh in the secondary account fails
because `source_table` cannot be resolved.

**Example: Successful refresh when source objects exist in secondary account
via separate replication**

![Simple diagram of successful refresh with different failover
groups.](../_images/dynamic-tables-failover-group-example-2.png)

In the above diagram, the dynamic table `dt` depends on `source_table`. Both
`dt` and `source_table` in the primary account are replicated to the secondary
account through independent failover groups. After replication and failover,
when `dt` is refreshed in the secondary account, the refresh succeeds because
`source_table` can be found through name resolution.

**Example: Successful refresh when source objects exist in secondary account
locally**

![Simple diagram of successful refresh with different failover
groups.](../_images/dynamic-tables-failover-group-example-3.png)

In the above diagram, the dynamic table `dt` depends on `source_table` and is
replicated through a failover group from the primary account to the secondary
account. A `source_table` is created locally in the secondary account. After
failover, when `dt1` is refreshed in the secondary account, the refresh can
succeed because `source_table` can be found through name resolution.

## Replication and Snowpipe Streaming¶

A table populated by [Snowpipe Streaming](data-load-snowpipe-streaming-
overview) in a primary database is replicated to the secondary database in a
target account.

In the primary database, tables are created and rows are inserted through
[channels](data-load-snowpipe-streaming-overview.html#label-replication-
snowpipe-channels). [Offset tokens](data-load-snowpipe-streaming-
overview.html#label-replication-snowpipe-offset-tokens) track the ingestion
progress. A refresh operation replicates the table object, table data, and the
channel offsets associated with the table from the primary database to the
secondary database.

  * Snowflake Streaming read-only operations to retrieve offsets are available in the source and target accounts:

    * The channel [getLatestCommittedOffsetToken](https://javadoc.io/doc/net.snowflake/snowflake-ingest-sdk/latest/net/snowflake/ingest/streaming/SnowflakeStreamingIngestChannel.html#getLatestCommittedOffsetToken\(\)) API

    * [SHOW CHANNELS](../sql-reference/sql/show-channels) command

  * Snowflake Streaming write operations are only available in the source account:

    * The client [openChannel](https://javadoc.io/doc/net.snowflake/snowflake-ingest-sdk/latest/net/snowflake/ingest/streaming/SnowflakeStreamingIngestClient.html#openChannel\(net.snowflake.ingest.streaming.OpenChannelRequest\)) API

    * The channel [insertRow](https://javadoc.io/doc/net.snowflake/snowflake-ingest-sdk/latest/net/snowflake/ingest/streaming/SnowflakeStreamingIngestChannel.html#insertRow\(java.util.Map,java.lang.String\)) API

    * The channel [insertRows](https://javadoc.io/doc/net.snowflake/snowflake-ingest-sdk/latest/net/snowflake/ingest/streaming/SnowflakeStreamingIngestChannel.html#insertRows\(java.lang.Iterable,java.lang.String\)) API

### Avoiding data loss¶

To avoid data loss in the case of failover, the data retention time for
successfully inserted rows in your upstream data source must be greater than
the configured [replication schedule](account-replication-intro.html#label-
replication-schedule). If data is inserted into a table in a primary database,
and failover occurs before the data can be replicated to the secondary
database, the same data will need to be inserted into the table in the newly
promoted primary database. The following is an example scenario:

  1. Table `t1` in primary database `repl_db` is populated with data with Snowpipe Streaming and the Kafka connector.

  2. The `offsetToken` is 100 for channel 1 and 100 for channel 2 for `t1` in the _primary_ database.

  3. A refresh operation completes successfully in the target account.

  4. The `offsetToken` is 100 for channel 1 and 100 for channel 2 for the `t1` in the _secondary_ database.

  5. More rows are inserted into `t1` in the primary database.

  6. The `offsetToken` is now 200 for channel 1 and 200 for channel 2 for the `t1` in the _primary_ database.

  7. A failover occurs before the additional rows and new channel offsets can be replicated to the secondary database.

In this case, there are 100 missing offsets in each channel for table `t1` in
the newly promoted primary database. To insert the missing data, see [Reopen
active channels for Snowpipe Streaming in newly promoted source
account](account-replication-failover-failback.html#label-update-snowpipe-
streaming-on-failover).

### Requirements¶

Snowpipe Streaming replication support requires the following minimum
versions:

  * Snowflake Ingest SDK version 1.1.1 and later

  * If you are using the Kafka connector: Kafka connector version 1.9.3 and later

The data retention time for successfully inserted rows in your upstream data
source must be greater than the configured replication schedule. If you are
using the Kafka connector, ensure your `log.retention` configuration is set
with a sufficient buffer.

## Replication and stages¶

The following constraints apply to stage objects:

  * Snowflake currently supports stage replication as part of group-based replication (replication and failover groups). Stage replication is not supported for database replication.

  * You can replicate an external stage. However, the files on an external stage are not replicated.

  * You can replicate an internal stage. To replicate the files on an internal stage, you must enable a directory table on the stage. Snowflake replicates only the files that are mapped by the directory table.

  * When you replicate an internal stage with a directory table, you cannot disable the directory table on the primary or secondary stage. The directory table contains critical information about replicated files and files loaded using a COPY statement.

  * A refresh operation will fail if the directory table on an internal stage contains a file that is larger than 5GB. To work around this limitation, move any files larger than 5GB to a different stage.

You cannot disable the directory table on a primary or secondary stage, or any
stage that has previously been replicated. Follow these steps _before_ you add
the database that contains the stage to a replication or failover group.

    1. [Disable the directory table](../sql-reference/sql/alter-stage.html#label-alter-stage-directory-table-syntax) on the primary stage.

    2. Move the files that are larger than 5GB to another stage that does not have a directory table enabled.

    3. After you move the files to another stage, re-enable the directory table on the primary stage.

  * Files on user stages and table stages are not replicated.

  * For named external stages that use a storage integration, you must configure the trust relationship for secondary storage integrations in your target accounts prior to failover. For more information, see [Configure cloud storage access for secondary storage integrations](account-replication-config.html#label-configure-cloud-storage-access-secondary-storage-integrations).

  * If you replicate an external stage with a directory table, and you have configured [automated refresh](data-load-dirtables-auto) for the source directory table, you must configure automated refresh for the secondary directory table before failover. For more information, see [Configure automated refresh for directory tables on secondary stages](account-replication-config.html#label-configure-automated-refresh-secondary-directory-tables).

  * A copy command might take longer than expected if the directory table on a replicated stage is not consistent with the replicated files on the stage. To make a directory table consistent, refresh it with an [ALTER STAGE … REFRESH](../sql-reference/sql/alter-stage) statement. To check the consistency status of a directory table, use the [SYSTEM$GET_DIRECTORY_TABLE_STATUS](../sql-reference/functions/system_get_directory_table_status) function.

## Replication and pipes¶

The following constraints apply to pipe objects:

  * Snowflake currently supports pipe replication as part of group-based replication (replication and failover groups). Pipe replication is not supported for database replication.

  * Snowflake replicates the copy history of a pipe only when the pipe belongs to the same replication group as its target table.

  * Replication of notification integrations is not supported.

  * Snowflake only replicates load history after the latest table truncate.

  * To receive notifications, you must configure a secondary auto-ingest pipe in a target account prior to failover. For more information, see [Configure notifications for secondary auto-ingest pipes](account-replication-config.html#label-configure-notifications-secondary-pipes).

  * Use the [SYSTEM$PIPE_STATUS](../sql-reference/functions/system_pipe_status) function to resolve any pipes not in their expected execution state after failover.

## Replication of data metric functions (DMFs)¶

The following behaviors apply to [DMF](data-quality-intro) replication:

Event tables

    

The event table that stores the results of manually calling or scheduling a
DMF to run is not replicated because the event table is local to your
Snowflake account, and Snowflake does not support replicating event tables.

Replication groups

    

When you add the database(s) that contain your DMFs to a replication group,
the following occurs in the target account:

  * DMFs are replicated from the source account.

  * Tables or views that the [DMF definition](../sql-reference/sql/create-data-metric-function) specifies, such as with a [foreign key reference](../sql-reference/sql/create-data-metric-function.html#label-create-data-metric-function-foreign-key) are replicated from the source account, unless the table or view is associated with [Cross-Cloud Auto-Fulfillment](https://other-docs.snowflake.com/collaboration/provider-listings-auto-fulfillment.html).

  * Scheduled DMFs in the target account are suspended. The secondary DMFs resume their schedule when you promote the target account to source account and the secondary DMFs become primary DMFs.

Failover groups

    

When you replicate the database(s) that contain your DMFs using a failover
group, the following occurs in the case of failover:

  * Resumes the schedule of suspended DMFs when you promote the target account to source account.

  * Suspends scheduled DMFs in the target account after you promote a different account to source account.

If you do not replicate the database that contains the DMF to a target
account, the DMF associations to a table or view are [dropped](data-quality-
working.html#label-data-quality-assign) when the target account is promoted to
source account because they are not available in the newly promoted source
account.

Tip

Prior to failing over your account, [check the DMF references](data-quality-
working.html#label-data-quality-track) by calling the
DATA_METRIC_FUNCTION_REFERENCES Information Schema table function to determine
the table objects that are associated with a DMF before the promotion and
refresh operations.

## Replication of stored procedures and user-defined functions (UDFs)¶

Stored procedures and UDFs are replicated from a primary database to secondary
databases.

### Stored Procedures and UDFs and Stages¶

If a stored procedure or UDF depends on files in a stage (for example, if the
stored procedure is defined in Python code that is uploaded from a stage), you
must replicate the stage and its files to the secondary database. For more
information about replicating stages, see [Stage, pipe, and load history
replication](account-replication-stages-pipes-load-history).

For example, if a primary database has an in-line Python UDF that imports any
code that is stored on a stage, the UDF does not work unless the stage and its
imported code are replicated in the secondary database.

### Stored Procedures and UDFs and External Network Access¶

If a stored procedure or UDF depends on access to an [external network
location](../developer-guide/external-network-access/creating-using-external-
network-access), you must replicate the following objects:

  * EXTERNAL ACCESS INTEGRATIONS must be included in the `allowed_integration_types` list for the replication or failover group.

  * The database that contains the network rule.

  * The database that contains the secret that stores the credentials to authenticate with the external network location.

  * If the secret object references a security integration, you must include SECURITY INTEGRATIONS in the `allowed_integration_types` list for the replication or failover group.

## Replication and streams¶

This section describes recommended practices and potential areas of concern
when replicating streams in [Replicating databases across multiple
accounts](db-replication-config) or [Account Replication and
Failover/Failback](account-replication-intro).

### Supported Source Objects for Streams¶

Replicated streams can successfully track the change data for tables and views
in the same database.

Currently, the following source object types are not supported:

  * External tables

  * Tables or views in databases separate from the stream databases, unless both the stream database and the database that stores the source object are included in the same [replication or failover group](account-replication-intro.html#label-replication-and-failover-groups).

  * Tables or views in a shared databases (i.e. databases shared from provider accounts to your account)

Replicating streams on directory tables is supported when you enable [Stage,
pipe, and load history replication](account-replication-stages-pipes-load-
history).

A database replication or refresh operation fails if the primary database
includes a stream with an unsupported source object. The operation also fails
if the source object for any stream has been dropped.

Append-only streams are not supported on replicated source objects.

### Avoiding Data Duplication¶

Note

In addition to the scenario described in this section, streams in a secondary
database could return duplicate rows the first time they are included in a
refresh operation. In this case, _duplicate rows_ refers to a single row with
multiple METADATA$ACTION column values.

After the initial refresh operation, you should not encounter this specific
issue in a secondary database.

Data duplication occurs when DML operations write the same change data from a
stream multiple times without a uniqueness check. This can occur if a stream
and a destination table for the stream change data are stored in separate
databases, and these databases are not replicated and failed over in the same
group.

For example, suppose you regularly insert change data from stream `s` into
table `dt`. (For this example, the source object for the stream does not
matter.) Separate databases store the stream and destination table.

  1. At timestamp `t1`, a row is inserted into the source table for stream `s`, creating a new table version. The stream stores the offset for this table version.

  2. At timestamp `t2`, the secondary database that stores the stream is refreshed. Replicated stream `s` now stores the offset.

  3. At timestamp `t3`, the change data for stream `s` is inserted into table `dt`.

  4. At timestamp `t4`, the secondary database that stores stream `s` is failed over.

  5. At timestamp `t5`, the change data for stream `s` is inserted again into table `dt`.

To avoid this situation, replicate and fail over together the databases that
store streams and their destination tables.

### Stream References in Task WHEN Clause¶

To avoid unexpected behavior when running replicated tasks that reference
streams in the `WHEN _boolean_expr_` clause, we recommend that you either:

  * Create the tasks and streams in the same database, or

  * If streams are stored in a different database from the tasks that reference them, include both databases in the same [failover group](account-replication-intro.html#label-replication-and-failover-groups).

If a task references a stream in a separate database, and both databases are
not included in the same failover group, then the database that contains the
task could be failed over without the database that contains the stream. In
this scenario, when the task is resumed in the failed over database, it
records an error when it attempts to run and cannot find the referenced
stream. This issue can be resolved by either failing over the database that
contains the stream or recreating the database and stream in the same account
as the failed over database that contains the task.

### Stream Staleness¶

If a stream in the primary database has become [stale](streams-
intro.html#label-streams-staleness), the replicated stream in a secondary
database is also stale and cannot be queried or its change data consumed. To
resolve this issue, recreate the stream in the primary database (using [CREATE
OR REPLACE STREAM](../sql-reference/sql/create-stream)). When the secondary
database is refreshed, the replicated stream is readable again.

Note that the offset for a recreated stream is the current table version by
default. You can recreate a stream that points to an earlier table version
using Time Travel; however, the replicated stream would remain unreadable. For
more information, see Stream Replication and Time Travel (in this topic).

### Stream Replication and Time Travel¶

After a primary database is failed over, if a stream in the database uses
[Time Travel](data-time-travel) to read a [table version](streams-
intro.html#label-streams-table-versioning) for the source object from a point
in time before the last refresh timestamp, the replicated stream cannot be
queried or the change data consumed. Likewise, querying the change data for a
source object from a point in time before the last refresh timestamp using the
[CHANGES](../sql-reference/constructs/changes) clause for [SELECT](../sql-
reference/sql/select) statements fails with an error.

This is because a refresh operation collapses the table history into a single
table version. Iterative table versions created before the refresh operation
timestamp are not preserved in the table history for the replicated source
objects.

Consider the following example:

[![Stream replication and Time Travel](../_images/replication-streams-time-
travel.png)](../_images/replication-streams-time-travel.png)

  1. Table `t1` is created in the primary database with change tracking enabled (table version `tv0`). Subsequent DML transactions create table versions `tv1` and `tv2`.

  2. A secondary database that contains table `t1` is refreshed. The table version for this replicated table is `tv2`; however, the table history is not replicated.

  3. A stream is created in the primary database with its offset set to table version `tv1` using Time Travel.

  4. The secondary database is failed over, becoming the primary database.

  5. Querying stream `s1` returns an error, because table version `tv1` is not in the table history.

Note that when a subsequent DML transaction on table `t1` iterates the table
version to `tv3`, the offset for stream `s1` is advanced. The stream is
readable again.

### Avoiding Data Loss¶

Data loss can occur when the most recent refresh operation for a secondary
database is not completed prior to the failover operation. We recommend
refreshing your secondary databases frequently to minimize the risk.

## Replication and tasks¶

This section describes task replication in [Replicating databases across
multiple accounts](db-replication-config) or [Account Replication and
Failover/Failback](account-replication-intro).

Note

Database replication does not work for task graphs if the graph is owned by a
different role than the role that performs replication.

### Replication Scenarios¶

The following table describes different task scenarios and specifies whether
the tasks are replicated or not. Except where noted, the scenarios pertain to
both standalone tasks and tasks in a [task graph](tasks-graphs.html#label-
task-dag):

Scenario | Replicated | Notes  
---|---|---  
Task was created and either resumed or executed manually (using [EXECUTE TASK](../sql-reference/sql/execute-task)). Resuming or executing a task creates an initial task version. | ✔ |   
Task was created but never resumed or executed. | ❌ |   
Task was recreated (using [CREATE OR REPLACE TASK](../sql-reference/sql/create-task) but never resumed or executed). | ✔ | The latest version before the task was recreated is replicated. Resuming or manually executing the task commits a new version. When the database is replicated again, the new, or latest, version is replicated to the secondary database.  
Task was created and resumed or executed, subsequently modified (using ALTER TASK), but not resumed or executed again. | ✔ | Resuming or manually executing a task commits a new version that includes any changes to the task parameters. Because the new changes were never committed, the latest version before the task was suspended and modified is replicated. Note that if the modified task is not resumed within a retention period (currently 30 days), the latest version of the task is dropped. After this period, the task is not replicated to a secondary database unless it is resumed again.  
Standalone task was created and resumed or executed, but subsequently dropped. | ❌ |   
Root task in a task graph was created and resumed or executed, but was subsequently suspended and dropped. | ❌ | The entire task graph is not replicated to a secondary database.  
Child task in a task graph is created and resumed or executed, but is subsequently suspended and dropped. | ✔ | The latest version of the task graph (before the task was suspended and dropped) is replicated to a secondary database.  
  
### Resumed or Suspended State of Replicated Tasks¶

If all of the following conditions are met, a task is replicated to a
secondary database in a resumed state:

  * A standalone or root task is in a resumed state in the primary database when the replication or refresh operation begins until the operation is completed. If a task is in a resumed state during only part of this period, it might still be replicated in a resumed state.

A child task is in a resumed state in the latest version of the task.

  * The parent database was replicated to the target account along with role objects in the same, or different, [replication or failover group](account-replication-intro.html#label-replication-and-failover-groups).

After the roles and database are replicated, you must refresh the objects in
the target account by executing either [ALTER REPLICATION GROUP …
REFRESH](../sql-reference/sql/alter-replication-group) or [ALTER FAILOVER
GROUP … REFRESH](../sql-reference/sql/alter-failover-group), respectively. If
you refresh the database by executing [ALTER DATABASE … REFRESH](../sql-
reference/sql/alter-database), the state of the tasks in the database is
changed to suspended.

A replication or refresh operation includes the privilege grants for a task
that were current when the latest table version was committed. For more
information, see Replicated Tasks and Privilege Grants (in this topic).

If these conditions are not met, the task is replicated to a secondary
database in a suspended state.

Note

Secondary tasks aren’t scheduled until after a failover, regardless of their
`state`. For more details, refer to Task Runs After a Failover

### Replicated Tasks and Privilege Grants¶

If the parent database is replicated to a target account along with role
objects in the same, or different, replication or failover group, the
privileges granted on the tasks in the database are replicated as well.

The following logic determines which task privileges are replicated in a
replication or refresh operation:

  * If the current task owner (i.e. the role that has the OWNERSHIP privilege on a task) is the same role as when the task was resumed last, then all current grants on the task are replicated to the secondary database.

  * If the current task owner is not the same role as when the task was resumed last, then only the OWNERSHIP privilege granted to the owner role in the task version is replicated to the secondary database.

  * If the current task owner role is not available (for example, a child task is dropped but a new version of the task graph is not committed yet), then only the OWNERSHIP privilege granted to the owner role in the task version is replicated to the secondary database.

### Task Runs After a Failover¶

After a secondary failover group is promoted to serve as the primary group,
any resumed tasks in databases within the failover group are scheduled
gradually. The amount of time required to restore normal scheduling of all
resumed standalone tasks and task graphs depends on the number of resumed
tasks in a database.

## Replication and tags¶

Tags and their assignments can be replicated from a source account to a target
account.

Tag assignments cannot be modified in the target account after the initial
replication from the source account. For example, setting a tag on a secondary
(i.e. replicated) database is not allowed. To modify tag assignments in the
target account, modify them in the source account and replicate them to the
target account.

To successfully replicate tags, ensure that the replication or failover group
includes:

  * The database containing the tags in the `ALLOWED_DATABASES` property.

  * Other account-level objects that have a tag in the `OBJECT_TYPES` property (e.g. `ROLES`, `WAREHOUSES`).

For more information, see [CREATE REPLICATION GROUP](../sql-
reference/sql/create-replication-group) and [CREATE FAILOVER GROUP](../sql-
reference/sql/create-failover-group).

## Replication and instances of Snowflake classes¶

An instance of the [CUSTOM_CLASSIFIER](../sql-
reference/classes/custom_classifier) class is replicated when the database
that contains the instance is replicated. Replication of instances of other
Snowflake [classes](../sql-reference-classes.html#label-available-classes) is
_not_ supported.

## Historical usage data¶

Historical usage data for activity in a primary database is not replicated to
secondary databases. Each account has its own query history, login history,
etc.

Historical usage data includes the query data returned by the following
[Snowflake Information Schema](../sql-reference/info-schema) table functions
or [Account Usage](../sql-reference/account-usage) views:

  * COPY_HISTORY

  * LOGIN_HISTORY

  * QUERY_HISTORY

  * etc.

