# Warehouse considerations¶

This topic provides general guidelines and best practices for using virtual
warehouses in Snowflake to process queries. It does not provide specific or
absolute numbers, values, or recommendations because every query scenario is
different and is affected by numerous factors, including number of concurrent
users/queries, number of tables being queried, and data size and composition,
as well as your specific requirements for warehouse availability, latency, and
cost.

It also does not cover warehouse considerations for data loading, which are
covered in another topic (see the sidebar).

The keys to using warehouses effectively and efficiently are:

  1. Experiment with different types of queries and different warehouse sizes to determine the combinations that best meet your specific query needs and workload.

  2. Don’t focus on warehouse size. Snowflake utilizes per-second billing, so you can run larger warehouses (Large, X-Large, 2X-Large, etc.) and simply suspend them when not in use.

Note

These guidelines and best practices apply to both single-cluster warehouses,
which are standard for all accounts, and [multi-cluster
warehouses](warehouses-multicluster), which are available in [Snowflake
Enterprise Edition](intro-editions) (and higher).

## How are credits charged for warehouses?¶

Credit charges are calculated based on:

  * The warehouse size.

  * The number of clusters (if using [multi-cluster warehouses](warehouses-multicluster)).

  * The length of time the compute resources in each cluster runs.

For example:

X-Small:

    

Bills 1 credit per full, continuous hour that each cluster runs; each
successive size generally doubles the number of compute resources per
warehouse.

4X-Large:

    

Bills 128 credits per full, continuous hour that each cluster runs.

Note the following:

  * When compute resources are provisioned for a warehouse:

    * The minimum billing charge for provisioning compute resources is 1 minute (i.e. 60 seconds).

    * There is no benefit to stopping a warehouse before the first 60-second period is over because the credits have already been billed for that period.

    * After the first 60 seconds, all subsequent billing for a running warehouse is per-second (until all its compute resources are shut down). Three examples are provided below:

      * If a warehouse runs for 30 to 60 seconds, it is billed for 60 seconds.

      * If a warehouse runs for 61 seconds, it is billed for only 61 seconds.

      * If a warehouse runs for 61 seconds, shuts down, and then restarts and runs for less than 60 seconds, it is billed for 121 seconds (60 + 1 + 60).

  * Resizing a warehouse provisions additional compute resources for each cluster in the warehouse:

    * This results in a corresponding increase in the number of credits billed for the warehouse (while the additional compute resources are running).

    * The additional compute resources are billed when they are provisioned (i.e. credits for the additional resources are billed relative to the time when the warehouse was resized).

    * Resizing between a 5XL or 6XL warehouse to a 4XL or smaller warehouse results in a brief period during which the customer is charged for both the new warehouse and the old warehouse while the old warehouse is quiesced.

    * Credit usage is displayed in hour increments. With per-second billing, you will see fractional amounts for credit usage/billing.

## How does query composition impact warehouse processing?¶

The compute resources required to process a query depend on the size and
complexity of the query. For the most part, queries scale linearly with
respect to warehouse size, particularly for larger, more complex queries. When
considering factors that impact query processing, consider the following:

  * The overall size of the tables being queried has more impact than the number of rows.

  * Query filtering using predicates has an impact on processing, as does the number of joins/tables in the query.

Tip

To achieve the best results, try to execute relatively homogeneous queries
(complexity, data sets, etc.) on the same warehouse; executing queries of
widely varying complexity on the same warehouse makes it more difficult to
analyze warehouse load, which can make it more difficult to select the best
warehouse size to match the complexity, composition, and number of queries in
your workload.

## How does warehouse caching impact queries?¶

Each warehouse, when running, maintains a cache of table data accessed as
queries are processed by the warehouse. This enables improved performance for
subsequent queries if they are able to read from the cache instead of from the
table(s) in the query. The size of the cache is determined by the compute
resources in the warehouse (that is, the larger the warehouse and, therefore,
more compute resources in the warehouse, the larger the cache).

This cache is dropped when the warehouse is suspended, which might result in
slower initial performance for some queries after the warehouse is resumed. As
the resumed warehouse runs and processes more queries, the cache is rebuilt,
and queries that are able to take advantage of the cache will experience
improved performance.

Keep this in mind when deciding whether to suspend a warehouse or leave it
running. In other words, consider the trade-off between saving credits by
suspending a warehouse versus maintaining the cache of data from previous
queries to help with performance.

## Creating a warehouse¶

When creating a warehouse, the two most critical factors to consider, from a
cost and performance perspective, are:

  * Warehouse size (i.e. available compute resources)

  * Manual vs automated management (for starting/resuming and suspending warehouses).

The number of clusters in a warehouse is also important if you are using
[Snowflake Enterprise Edition](intro-editions) (or higher) and [multi-cluster
warehouses](warehouses-multicluster). For more details, see Scaling Up vs
Scaling Out (in this topic).

### Selecting an initial warehouse size¶

The initial size you select for a warehouse depends on the task the warehouse
is performing and the workload it processes. For example:

  * For data loading, the warehouse size should match the number of files being loaded and the amount of data in each file. For more information, see [Planning a data load](data-load-considerations-plan).

  * For queries in small-scale testing environments, smaller warehouses sizes (X-Small, Small, Medium) may be sufficient.

  * For queries in large-scale production environments, larger warehouse sizes (Large, X-Large, 2X-Large, etc.) may be more cost effective.

However, note that per-second credit billing and auto-suspend give you the
flexibility to start with larger sizes and then adjust the size to match your
workloads. You can decrease the size of a warehouse at any time.

Also, larger is not necessarily faster for smaller, more basic queries.
Small/simple queries typically do not need an X-Large (or larger) warehouse
because they do not necessarily benefit from the additional resources,
regardless of the number of queries being processed concurrently. In general,
you should try to match the size of the warehouse to the expected size and
complexity of the queries to be processed by the warehouse.

Tip

Experiment by running the same queries against warehouses of multiple sizes
(for example, X-Large, Large, Medium). The queries you experiment with should
be of a size and complexity that you know will typically complete within 5 to
10 minutes (or less).

### Selecting a warehouse for Snowsight¶

Certain Snowsight pages, such as Task Run History or Data Preview, require a
warehouse to run SQL queries in order to display more than just metadata. On
these pages, a warehouse selector indicates the warehouse where these UI
queries are running. A green dot indicates when the warehouse is active.

An X-Small warehouse is recommended and generally sufficient for most of these
queries, however large accounts may see performance improvements by using a
larger warehouse.

In some cases, your account is not billed for client-generated statements. For
example, [SHOW TABLES](../sql-reference/sql/show-tables) does not require a
warehouse to retrieve data, so no charges apply. For more information about
warehouses in general, see [Overview of warehouses](warehouses-overview).

Note

Snowsight performance can be affected if the warehouse is temporarily
overloaded and UI queries are queued behind other active workloads. If you
notice inconsistent Snowsight performance, Snowflake recommends that you
review the selected warehouse for overload and consider using one with lower
utilization. Large accounts with many active users might benefit from a
dedicated X-Small warehouse for UI-related tasks.

You can view which Snowsight queries have been running on the currently
selected warehouse and when they ran. To monitor these queries, follow these
steps:

  1. Select Monitoring » Query History.

  2. Select the Filters drop-down list.

  3. Select the Client-generated statements checkbox to view internal queries run by a client, driver, or library, including the web interface.

  4. Select Apply Filters.

For information about cost governance, see [Exploring compute cost](cost-
exploring-compute).

### Using the default warehouse for Notebook apps¶

[![Snowflake logo in black \(no text\)](../_images/logo-snowflake-
black.png)](../_images/logo-snowflake-black.png) [Preview Feature](../release-
notes/preview-features) — Open

Available to all accounts.

A dedicated Snowflake-managed warehouse is provisioned in each account to
exclusively run Notebook apps. SYSTEM$STREAMLIT_NOTEBOOK_WH is a multi-cluster
X-Small warehouse that reduces cluster fragmentation, optimizes your overall
costs, and aids in better bin packing. For more details, see [Default
warehouse for Notebooks](warehouses-overview.html#label-default-warehouse).

### Automating warehouse suspension¶

Warehouses can be set to automatically suspend when there’s no activity after
a specified period of time. Auto-suspend is enabled by specifying the time
period (minutes, hours, etc.) of inactivity for the warehouse.

We recommend setting auto-suspend according to your workload and your
requirements for warehouse availability:

  * If you enable auto-suspend, we recommend setting it to a low value (for example, 5 or 10 minutes or less) because Snowflake utilizes per-second billing. This will help keep your warehouses from running (and consuming credits) when not in use.

However, the value you set should match the gaps, if any, in your query
workload. For example, if you have regular gaps of 2 or 3 minutes between
incoming queries, it doesn’t make sense to set auto-suspend to 1 or 2 minutes
because your warehouse will be in a continual state of suspending and resuming
(if auto-resume is also enabled) and each time it resumes, you are billed for
the minimum credit usage (that is, 60 seconds).

  * You might want to consider disabling auto-suspend for a warehouse if:

    * You have a heavy, steady workload for the warehouse.

    * You require the warehouse to be available with no delay or lag time. Warehouse provisioning is generally very fast (e.g. 1 or 2 seconds); however, depending on the size of the warehouse and the availability of compute resources to provision, it can take longer.

Important

If you choose to disable auto-suspend, carefully consider the costs associated
with running a warehouse continually, even when the warehouse is not
processing queries. The costs can be significant, especially for larger
warehouses (X-Large, 2X-Large, etc.).

To disable auto-suspend, you must explicitly select Never in the web
interface, or specify `0` or `NULL` in SQL.

### Automating warehouse resumption¶

Warehouses can be set to automatically resume when new queries are submitted.

We recommend enabling/disabling auto-resume depending on how much control you
wish to exert over usage of a particular warehouse:

  * If cost and access are not an issue, enable auto-resume to ensure that the warehouse starts whenever needed. Keep in mind that there might be a short delay in the resumption of the warehouse due to provisioning.

  * If you wish to control costs and/or user access, leave auto-resume disabled and instead manually resume the warehouse only when needed.

## Scaling up vs scaling out¶

Snowflake supports two ways to scale warehouses:

  * Scale up by resizing a warehouse.

  * Scale out by adding clusters to a multi-cluster warehouse (requires [Snowflake Enterprise Edition](intro-editions) or higher).

### Warehouse resizing improves performance¶

Resizing a warehouse generally improves query performance, particularly for
larger, more complex queries. It can also help reduce the queuing that occurs
if a warehouse does not have enough compute resources to process all the
queries that are submitted concurrently. Note that warehouse resizing is not
intended for handling concurrency issues; instead, use additional warehouses
to handle the workload or use a multi-cluster warehouse (if this feature is
available for your account).

Snowflake supports resizing a warehouse at any time, even while running. If a
query is running slowly and you have additional queries of similar size and
complexity that you want to run on the same warehouse, you might choose to
resize the warehouse while it is running; however, note the following:

  * As stated earlier about warehouse size, larger is not necessarily faster; for smaller, basic queries that are already executing quickly, you may not see any significant improvement after resizing.

  * Resizing a running warehouse does not impact queries that are already being processed by the warehouse; the additional compute resources, once fully provisioned, are only used for queued and new queries.

  * Resizing between a 5XL or 6XL warehouse to a 4XL or smaller warehouse results in a brief period during which the customer is charged for both the new warehouse and the old warehouse while the old warehouse is quiesced.

Tip

Decreasing the size of a running warehouse removes compute resources from the
warehouse. When the computer resources are removed, the cache associated with
those resources is dropped, which can impact performance in the same way that
suspending the warehouse can impact performance after it is resumed.

Keep this in mind when choosing whether to decrease the size of a running
warehouse or keep it at the current size. In other words, there is a trade-off
with regards to saving credits versus maintaining the cache.

### Multi-cluster warehouses improve concurrency¶

[![Snowflake logo in black \(no text\)](../_images/logo-snowflake-
black.png)](../_images/logo-snowflake-black.png) [Enterprise Edition
Feature](intro-editions)

To inquire about upgrading to Enterprise Edition, please contact [Snowflake
Support](https://docs.snowflake.com/user-guide/contacting-support).

[Multi-cluster warehouses](warehouses-multicluster) are designed specifically
for handling queuing and performance issues related to large numbers of
concurrent users and/or queries. In addition, multi-cluster warehouses can
help automate this process if your number of users/queries tend to fluctuate.

When deciding whether to use multi-cluster warehouses and the number of
clusters to use per multi-cluster warehouse, consider the following:

  * If you are using Snowflake Enterprise Edition (or a higher edition), all your warehouses should be configured as multi-cluster warehouses.

  * Unless you have a specific requirement for running in Maximized mode, multi-cluster warehouses should be configured to run in Auto-scale mode, which enables Snowflake to automatically start and stop clusters as needed.

  * When choosing the minimum and maximum number of clusters for a multi-cluster warehouse:

Minimum:

    

Keep the default value of `1`; this ensures that additional clusters are only
started as needed. However, if high-availability of the warehouse is a
concern, set the value higher than `1`. This helps ensure multi-cluster
warehouse availability and continuity in the unlikely event that a cluster
fails.

Maximum:

    

Set this value as large as possible, while being mindful of the warehouse size
and corresponding credit costs. For example, an X-Large multi-cluster
warehouse with maximum clusters = `10` will consume 160 credits in an hour if
all 10 clusters run continuously for the hour.

